Problem Set 04
==============

Due: Tuesday, November 8, at 2:00 pm

Prerequisite
------------

You know that `double` and `int` types are often incompatible in
math expressions. There's a way to "cast" an int value as a double,
explicitly. Here's an example:

    int r = 5;
    double d = double(r); // cast r into a double on the RHS
    double s = sqrt(d);   // s == 2.236 (or so)
    int t = int(s);       // t == 2 (truncate when casting)

The SageMathCloud environment is capable of providing 64-bit integers.
Our normal ones are 32-bit, meaning that values between -2^31 and 2^31-1
are representable. 2^31 is about 2.1 billion. The range of a 64-bit integer
is huge by comparison. You can get a 64-bit integer by using `long` data type
instead of `int`.

Instructions
------------

For this assignment, you will write two C++ programs and a short essay. Each
program should be in a separate file. The filenames to use are:

* `monte_carlo_dice.c++`
* `monte_carlo_explanation.md`
* `monte_carlo_pi.c++`

*Monte Carlo simulation* is one of the most useful techniques of mathematical
modeling. The idea is simple: you use a computer to randomly simulate your
experiment many thousands or millions of times, and observe the percentage
rates of occurrence of different outcomes.

#### Question 1

Write a program that rolls a virtual die 10 times. Use some variables to keep
track of how many times a 1 is rolled, how many times a 2 is rolled, and so on
(use a 6-sided die). Print a simple summary of the experiment, like this:

    Results:
    Rolled a 1: 2 times
    Rolled a 2: 1 time
    Rolled a 3: 0 times
    Rolled a 4: 3 times
    Rolled a 5: 1 time
    Rolled a 6: 3 times

#### Question 2

Run your program from Question 1 a few times and think about probabilities.
Make a prediction about what the values (how many times a 1 is rolled, etc.)
should be if we do a large run of experiments, say six thousand. Then, write a
variant of your program that performs this larger run. Does your prediction
hold up? Try again, with a really big run of 60 million. Add comments to your
`monte_carlo.c++` program explaining how to do the big run of 60 million. For
full credit, you need to make sure that someone can change the size of the run
in `monte_carlo.c++`by changing a single value on a single line of code.
(*Hint.* No magic numbers!)

For question 2, write 400 words explaining the results in the file
`monte_carlo_explanation.md`.

#### Question 3

This is a classic Monte Carlo problem to estimate the value of pi without
any recourse to calculus. We'll use this definition of pi: the area of a
circle of radius 1. Notice that such a circle is *inscribed* in a square
of side length 2.

1. Write a function `random_real()` that returns a random real number (i.e., a
   double) between -1 and 1. *Hint.* You know how to generate random integers
   in whatever range you want. Can you use this to do what is asked here?

3. Write a void function `random_point()` that takes two reference double
   parameters. It should store two random *x*- and *y*-coordinates in the two
   parameters.

2. Write a function `is_in_circle()` that returns a boolean value. It should
   take two parameters of type `double`---these are the *x*- and
   *y*-coordinates of a point. The function returns `true` if the point is on
   or inside the unit circle, and `false` if it is outside.

4. Your main function should declare a `const int` variable `POINTS`. Then, it
   should generate `POINTS` many random points, testing each one to see
   whether it is in the circle.

5. The fraction of the randomly generated points lying within the circle is
   about equal to the ratio of the area of the circle to the area of the
   square. Use this to estimate pi. Here's a sample run:

        Generating 1000 points... 786 of 1000 points lie within the circle.
        Hence the circle's area is 0.786 times that of the square, or 3.144.

6. How accurate an estimate can you get? Remember to use `<iomanip>` to get
   more decimal places. Try varying different parts of the program. Keep track
   of what works best as you experiment, and submit the program that gives the
   best result you can get (compare with published values of pi; you won't be able
   to get more than 17 digits because of how doubles are stored internally).

7. Read
   [this article](https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/observations/how-much-pi-do-you-need/)
   and reflect on its contents. How do you think 10 trillion digits of pi can be computed?
