Problem Set 03
==============

Due: Tuesday, October 11, at 2:00 pm

For this assignment, you will write three C++ programs. Each program should be
in a separate file. The filename to use are:

* `diamonds.c++`
* `letter_count.c++`
* `jump_art.c++`

Each program that you write should have some comment lines at the top that
show the assignment and question number, your name and the date the program
was written, and a description of the program. Here's an example. Your comment
lines need to look very similar to these, except (obviously) for your name.

    // CSC-150 Daily assignment 10, question 3
    // File: mario-hills.c++
    // Dave Rosoff, 2016-09-27
    // P4.23 in Horstmann. This program prints Mario hills of various sizes.

----------------------------------------

#### QUESTION 1

Do programming exercise 4.23 on page 182 of Horstmann. The instructions are:

*Write a program that reads an integer and displays, using asterisks, a filled
diamond of the given side length.*

Sample session 1:

    Enter a positive integer side length: 4
       *
      ***
     *****
    *******
     *****
      ***
       *

Sample session 2:

    Enter a positive integer side length: 1
    *

Sample session 3:

    Enter a position integer side length: -4
    Bad input! Terminating.

Sample session 4:

    Enter a position integer side length: 2
     *
    ***
     *

---------------------------------------

#### Question 2

Write a program that prompts the user to enter a word (and stores this word in
a variable of type `string`) then prompts the user to enter a letter (and stores
this letter in a variable of type `string`), then prints a message saying how
many times the letter occurs in the word.  Example output:

Sample session 1:

        Please enter a word: banana
        Please enter a letter: a

        The letter a occurs 3 times in the word banana

Sample session 2:

        Please enter a word: banana
        Please enter a letter: b

        The letter b occurs 1 time in the word banana

Sample session 3:

        Please enter a word: banana
        Please enter a letter: q

        The letter q occurs 0 times in the word banana

---------------------------------------

#### Question 3

(With acknowledgements to Dr. Glen Granzow.) Write a program that begins by
drawing the figure below on the screen:

       O
      /|\
      ( )
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    Press ENTER to continue or enter q to quit:

Print 20 or so blank lines before printing the person so that the above figure
is all that you see on the screen.  If the user presses <kbd>ENTER</kbd> the
following figure should be drawn on the screen:

      \O/
       |
      / \

    ------------------------------------------------------------
    Press ENTER to continue or enter q to quit:

Again, make enough blank lines before printing the person so the above is all
that appears. Note that in the original figure the person was drawn on the
line immediately above the line of hyphens but in the second figure there is a
single blank line between the person and the line of hyphens.  If the user
presses enter, the original figure should be drawn again.  As long as the user
keeps pressing enter, the alternating figures should be drawn.  If the user
enters the letter `q` the program should end. In order to accept just an
empty line as input, use

    string pick_a_good_identifier_for_your_string;
    getline(cin, pick_a_good_identifier_for_your_string);

instead of

    string pick_a_good_identifier_for_your_string;
    cin >> pick_a_good_identifier_for_your_string;

The latter ignores leading whitespace, then grabs all the non-whitespace
characters it sees, stopping when it sees whitespace. The former grabs
everything it sees until the first newline, which is consumed but not made
part of the string.

Submitting your work
--------------------

Due at 02:00 pm on Tuesday, October 11:

* `

Before you submit, ask yourself...

1. Do I have a comment block at the very beginning of my files?
2. Have I duplicated all specified output exactly?
3. ...including prompts, punctuation, capital letters, spaces, and blank lines?
