# Problem Set 01: output and arithmetic

For this assignment, you'll write three C++ programs. Each program should be in
a separate file. The file for the first question should be named `ps01q1.c++`,
the file for the second question should be named `ps01q2.c++`, and so on.

Each program that you write should have three comment lines at the top that
show the assignment and question number, your name and the date the program
was written, and a description of the program. Here's an example.

    // CSC-150 Homework set 1, question 1
    // Dave Rosoff, 2016-09-13
    // P1.10 in Horstmann. This program draws a house

Other than this, your code should:

1. *Compile.* If I can't run your program, I won't grade it. (I might still
   leave comments.) If you have a bug you can't fix, try commenting out parts
   of your program until it compiles. You can also ask for help with bugs. Use
   the SageMathCloud chat interface from your `.c++` files.
2. *Be properly indented.* All the lines within a pair of braces {} are
   indented by the same amount.
3. *Use named constants.* If you need to use a specific number in computations
   other than 0 and 1, declare it as a `const` variable and refer to it by
   name.
4. *Lack long lines.* No lines should be longer than 80 characters.
5. *Match examples exactly.* Take special care with spacing and punctuation.
   When you mimic the examples, the output should be exactly the same.

#### QUESTION 1

Do programming exercise 1.10 on page 26 of Horstmann. The instructions are:

Write a program that prints a house that looks exactly like the following:

      /\
     /  \
    +----+
    | .-.|
    | | ||
    +-+-++

#### QUESTION 2

Do programming exercise P2.6 on page 67 of Horstmann. The instructions are:

Write a program that prompts the user for a measurement in meters and then
converts it to miles, feet, and inches. Here are a few example runs. Just like
on the unit conversion problem from class, *your* program should only run once.

    Please enter a distance (in meters): 1000
    You entered 1000 meters, which is equal to 0 miles, 3280 feet, and 10.0787 inches.

    Please enter a distance (in meters): 10000
    You entered 10000 meters, which is equal to 6 miles, 1128 feet, and 4.7874 inches.

    Please enter a distance (in meters): .1
    You entered 0.1 meters, which is equal to 0 miles, 0 feet, and 3.93701 inches.


------------------------------------------------------------

#### QUESTION 3
Do programming exercise P2.14 on page 68 of Horstmann. The instructions are

*Giving change.* Implement a program that directs a cashier how to give
change. The program has two inputs: the amount due and the amount received
from the customer. Display the dollars, quarters, dimes, nickels, and pennies
that the customer should receive in return. Example output:

    Please enter the amount due: 29.17
    Please enter the amount received from the customer: 50.00
    The customer's change is $20.83:
        * 20 dollars
        * 3 quarters
        * 0 dimes
        * 1 nickels
        * 3 pennies

    Please enter the amount due: 30.00
    Please enter the amount received from the customer: 40.00
    The customer's change is $10.00:
        * 10 dollars
        * 0 quarters
        * 0 dimes
        * 0 nickels
        * 0 pennies

    Please enter the amount due: 8.59
    Please enter the amount received from the customer: 10.00
    The customer's change is $1.41:
        * 1 dollars
        * 1 quarters
        * 1 dimes
        * 1 nickels
        * 1 pennies

If your program supplies the amounts due and received, instead of allowing the user to enter them,
***YOU ARE DOING IT WRONG***.
