Problem Set 06
==============

In this problem set you'll build on the work of recent dailies to write a
complete program. There is a flowchart deadline and a draft deadline as well
as a final deadline.

* Flowchart due: Friday, November 18, at 10:20 am (in class, on paper)
* Draft due: Monday, November 28, at 2:00 pm
* Final due: Friday, December 2, at 2:00 pm

Instructions
------------

You will implement the game of War in a C++ program. There are no official
rules, so we will follow the 2-player rules outlined below. Visit
[Wikipedia][wiki] for more details. If you are not familiar with the standard
deck of cards, there is a [Wikipedia article][cards] for that too.
The rules of the game are very simple, so it is really a game for young
children.

* The game is played with a standard 52-card deck (13 ranks, Aces high, 4
  suits). Suits are ignored in War.
* The deck is shuffled and then dealt into 2 equal hands of 26.
* Players play their hands from top to bottom. Cards are not examined or
  rearranged.
* Each player turns over the top card from their hand. The high card wins
  and collects both cards, which are returned to the bottom of the winner's hand.
  In the event of a tie, there is a *war*, described below.
* In a war, the tying cards stay out and are followed by one face-down card
  and one face-up card per player. The face-up cards play in the same way as
  usual: the high card winds and the player collects all six cards out and
  returns them to the bottom of their hand.
* If ties continue, the war continues with another two face-down cards and
  another two face-up cards. If a player runs out of cards during a war, the
  player loses immediately.
* If the war ends, play continues as normal.
* The game is over when one player collects all 52 cards, or when a war ends
  due to one player's inability to continue.

Specifications
--------------

Much of the program's design is up to you, but you must write your code to
follow the specifications below.

* Your code should compile using the command

        g++ -std=c++11 -Wall -Werror -pedantic -o war war.c++

* The deck of cards and each hand, as well as other piles of cards of a
  temporary nature, should be implemented as vectors.

* When a player wins a trick, the cards collected must be returned to the
  bottom of the hand---that is, the opposite side from where cards are played.

Submitting your work
--------------------

1. Flowcharts due (on paper): at the start of class on Friday, November 18
2. Drafts due in SMC on Monday, November 28 at 2:00
3. Final versions due in SMC on Friday, December 2 at 2:00

[wiki]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/War_(card_game)
[cards]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_52-card_deck
