Problem Set 02
==============

For this assignment, you will write two C++ programs. Each program should be
in a separate file. The file for the first question should be named
`ps02q1.c++`, the file for the second question should be named
`ps02q2.c++`, and so on.

Each program that you write should have three comment lines at the top that
show the assignment and question number, your name and the date the program
was written, and a description of the program. Here's an example. Your comment
lines need to look exactly like these, except (obviously) for your name.

```
// CSC 150 Problem set 2, question 1
// Dave Rosoff, 2016-09-27
// P2.22 in Horstmann. This program prints some large letters.
```

As you finish each flowchart step (you are still making flowcharts, right?),
add a comment near the associated lines of code explaining the step.


Instructions
------------

## QUESTION 1

Do programming exercise 1.10 on page 26 of Horstmann. The instructions are:

*Writing large letters.* A large letter H can be produced like this:

    *   *
    *   *
    *****
    *   *
    *   *

It might look like there are some blank lines in the picture above, but there aren't. That's just how the font looks. The large H above can be defined as a string constant like this:

```
const string LETTER_H = "*   *\n*   *\n*****\n*   *\n*   *\n"
```

(The `\n` character is explained in Special Topic 1.1.) Do the
same for the letters E, L, and O. Then write the message

    H
    E
    L
    L
    O

in large letters, separating each adjacent pair of letters by a blank line. Your program should get *no* input from the user. Here is a sample run:

    *   *
    *   *
    *****
    *   *
    *   *

    *****
    *
    ***
    *
    *****

    *
    *
    *
    *
    *****

    *
    *
    *
    *
    *****

     ***
    *   *
    *   *
    *   *
     ***

## QUESTION 2

Write a variation of your program from Question 1 that gets an odd positive
integer, less than or equal to 7, from the user. This odd positive integer
will be the width and the height of each of the large letters your program
makes. Your program should issue a complaint message and quit (see below) if
the user enters anything but 1, 3, 5, or 7. If the user enters 1, use regular
letters to print the vertical HELLO message instead of large letters (and
don't skip a line in between letters). It is OK if the letters for size 3 are
a little weird looking.

Here is the first letter in a sample run:

    Enter a letter size (odd integers only): 7
    *     *
    *     *
    *     *
    *******
    *     *
    *     *
    *     *

Here is the required behavior for bad input (your `main` function should
`return 1` in this case, see Section 3.8):

    Enter a letter size (odd integers only): -163
    I'm sorry, I don't know what to do with that size. Goodbye!

Submitting your work
--------------------

The files below are due at 2:00 pm on Wednesday, September 28.

* ps02q1.c++
* ps02q2.c++
